We are happy to continue
with the annual meeting program.
We now have with us Brother Len Myers,
a helper to the Writing Committee,
who will conduct an interview
with wives of Branch Committee members
in the United States.
Brother Myers, please.
The accounts of faithful women
are found throughout the Bible.
One faithful Christian sister
is mentioned by the apostle Paul
at Romans 16:1, 2.
There he mentions Phoebe,
who ‘proved herself to be
a defender of many, including Paul.’
Today, we’re blessed
to be able to get to know
faithful Christian sisters
who share something unique.
All of them are wives of brothers
who serve as members
of the United States Branch Committee.
Sister Snyder,
we’d like to get to know more about you.
Can you, please,
first tell us how you got the truth?
I was introduced to the truth by my parents.
And Jehovah used the example of my sister
and the nurturing love of older ones
in the congregations to draw me to him.
Then how did you start
in the full-time ministry
and then into Bethel service?
Well, it was a bit of a test.
When I was in my late teens,
a friend of mine died,
and I couldn’t understand
why Jehovah would allow this
to happen to such a kind person.
So an elderly pioneer sister encouraged me
to do deeper research
on the issue of universal sovereignty.
And this not only comforted me,
but it caused me to reevaluate my priorities
and to see if I
truly believed Jehovah would take care of me
if I really put him first.
So I started pioneering
and put college on hold.
And it wasn’t long before I was broke
and the rent was coming due.
And so the next meeting,
I quietly put my last $50
in the contribution box
and thought:
‘That’s it, done, doesn’t work.
I’m going back to school.’
But that evening,
I learned that Matthew 6:33
is undeniably true.
Jehovah surprised me
and cared for all my needs
from the most unlikely sources,
and he hasn’t stopped caring for me since.
And then you joined Troy
in Bethel service later on, right?
Now, what assignments
have you enjoyed at Bethel?
I’ve enjoyed housekeeping.
I’ve really enjoyed a lot of assignments
within Transportation Department,
and I was one of the thousands who worked
on the Warwick and Tuxedo
construction projects.
Now, as the wife
of a Branch Committee member,
you have a demanding schedule.
Can you explain one challenge?
Well, like most wives of good shepherds,
I would love
to have more time with my husband.
That’s understandable.
So, what practical things
have you done to deal with that challenge?
Well, prayer, study, and meditation
have reminded me that we’re at spiritual war.
And we’re at war,
so our priorities have to change.
So I can’t long for ideal circumstances,
although they’re coming quickly.
Right now, it’s about advancing pure worship.
And while it’s important to maintain
a healthy and close relationship with Troy,
my primary joy should be in Jehovah.
And, then, second is remembering
the sacrifices that were made for me.
Of course, Jehovah gave up 33 years
with his best friend for me.
And also there were sisters
when I was single and pioneering
who would invite me over for lots of meals
and to go out in service.
They would even send their husband
out on freezing cold, dark nights
to fix my car,
which broke down often.
So I’m grateful,
and the main way I can show this appreciation
is to imitate their examples.
Now, with challenges come blessings.
What’s one blessing you enjoy
as the wife of a Branch Committee member?
Increased peace
that comes from having complete confidence
in how Jehovah directs
and blesses the decisions
his organization makes
through the Governing Body.
If I were not married
to a Branch Committee member,
I may never have known
just how much the brothers
rely on Jehovah’s spirit
and how much time they spend
—long periods of time—
in prayer
and how much
they deeply, deeply love the friends.
So I’m embarrassed
about how much worrying
I’ve done in the past about these things.
But now it’s a lot easier
to just be supportive
and listen, obey, and be blessed.
Very nice.
Now, as you look back
on your rich spiritual life
in Jehovah’s service,
is there an experience you can share with us?
We were visiting a small branch
in a developing country
that had been ravaged
by decades of civil war.
I’d never seen poverty like that before.
And one evening,
I went into the dining room
to gather dinner for us.
But before getting the dinner,
I stopped and talked
to a lovely young brother.
At one point, I turned around
and noticed that all the food had been taken.
And I said, “There’s no more food.”
Now, this young brother hadn’t eaten either.
But he just shrugged and said,
“It’s just hunger,”
and he continued zealously talking
about his assignment.
Now, this brother was a commuter
and very thin,
and so it was likely
that he might not eat that night
or maybe even the next morning.
But the way his face glowed
when he talked about his assignment,
it was clear that his joy
was not based on anything physical
or the lack of anything physical.
So I really treasure this lesson
because it’s made me want to appreciate more
what I do have currently
and to imitate his example in focusing
on what’s truly important.
And I think you told me
that he did get some food that night,
so we’re happy about that.
Thanks for letting us get to know you
and for sharing that experience.
Now we’d like to get to know
Sister Shirrell Georges.
Sister Georges,
can you tell us how you got the truth?
When I was 11, my mother started to study.
Another sister studied
with my two sisters and me
out of the book
From Paradise Lost to Paradise Regained.
Two years later, on November 13, 1971,
my mother, my oldest sister, and I
were baptized.
How did you start in the full-time ministry?
As teenagers, a pioneer couple assisted us
when we temporary, or vacation, pioneered,
as it was called then.
That led me to want
to regular pioneer after high school.
However, after graduating,
I started working full-time.
It was at a district convention
where the point was made,
‘If you’re not pioneering, tell Jehovah why.’
Well, I really didn’t have a good reason.
So I started making plans to work part-time.
It was in September of 1980
when I realized my goal
of regular pioneering.
And how did that lead to Bethel service?
While pioneering,
I had the opportunity to assist
with the Brooklyn Assembly Hall
renovation project on Thursdays.
It was one Thursday that I learned
of an announcement made at Bethel:
Sisters could now commute.
So after a while,
I turned in my application
and started commuting
in November of 1987.
But before commuting, I had met Luther.
We started to court, and then later,
we were married
and accepted as a couple to Bethel.
And what assignments
have you enjoyed at Bethel?
While commuting,
I worked in the Dry Cleaning Department
and continued there after marriage.
For a short time, I worked
with the Brooklyn Warehouse Department.
Then Luther and I
received a surprise assignment.
We were asked to assist
at the Jamaica branch,
starting in March of 1995.
There I worked in alterations,
laundry, kitchen, housekeeping,
shipping, and the Bethel Office.
Then in 2014, the Jamaica branch
merged with the United States branch.
We were invited to serve
back in the United States
—first at Patterson,
where I worked in Audio/Video Services,
and now at Wallkill,
in the Service Department.
Now, you too have a demanding schedule.
Can you explain one challenge?
Well, many of the assignments
that Luther has involve traveling.
So that means that we are away
from our congregation,
sometimes for weeks.
It also means that we’re not able to get back
to our return visits and Bible studies
on a weekly basis.
So, what practical things have you done
to deal with that challenge?
We’ve found it helpful
to let the friends know
whenever we will be away.
Many times we would receive a text from them:
“Just saying hi.
Checking on you.
Hope you’re doing well.”
This really has helped us
to stay connected.
Something else we did
was to invite publishers
to go with us on our return visits
and Bible studies.
This way, whenever we were away,
they could keep the interest going.
That’s a good idea.
What good habits did you form early in life
that help you now
as you support your husband?
Growing up, my mother taught us to be content
and to share whatever we had.
One Watchtower  article stated:
“True contentment comes
from loving and being loved.”
We grew up in a loving family,
and then learning about Jehovah
and his love as I grew older
helped me to find contentment
in Jehovah’s service.
So whatever assignment I have,
I try to be content
and view any differences
as an opportunity for me to learn
about the various aspects,
unique personalities,
and qualities of my brothers and sisters.
Now, as you look back
on your rich spiritual life,
is there a memory
you can share with us?
Proverbs 10:22 says:
“The blessing of Jehovah
—that is what makes [one] rich.”
I feel as if I have been enriched
in so many ways with so many memories.
One memory is being able to assist
in the former Jamaica branch
for over 19 years.
Working together with the brothers
was such a unique privilege
and was really encouraging.
To see the brothers exhibit
their faith and loyalty to Jehovah
despite various challenging circumstances
was a true encouragement for us.
We made many friends
in that assignment,
and we continue
to keep in touch to this day.
That is a nice memory.
Thanks for sharing that with us.
Finally, we’d like to talk
to Sister Sunny Cheiky.
Sister Cheiky,
can you tell us how you got the truth
and then entered the full-time ministry?
My mother raised me
and my two brothers to serve Jehovah.
It was difficult for her
because my father left the truth
and our family when we were very young.
But she set a very good example for us.
And then because of the encouragement
of young pioneers in our congregation,
I began regular pioneering
in the Pasadena, California, Congregation
after I graduated from high school in 1962.
And how did that lead to Bethel service?
I served in a few other areas
where the need was great
in New Mexico, northern California,
a special pioneer assignment in Iowa,
and then a small congregation in Mississippi.
Tom was a Brooklyn Bethelite,
and he came down to Mississippi
to dedicate a Kingdom Hall.
In May 1981, we met;
seven months later, we were married,
and we were accepted
to serve as a couple at Bethel.
Nice.
What assignments have you enjoyed at Bethel?
I was a housekeeper for my first three years,
and now I’ve been in laundry for 35 years.
I did have a part-time assignment
in grounds maintenance for a while,
but now I joyfully serve full-time
in the Wallkill laundry.
Now, you too have a demanding schedule.
Can you explain one challenge?
Meeting so many wonderful friends
in our assignments,
I like to keep in touch with them.
But time is so limited,
so I feel that that can be
overwhelming at times.
So, what practical thing have you done
to deal with that challenge?
Well, I love to write cards and send letters,
so that’s how I deal with this.
To be able to keep in touch with my friends
—that really helps a lot.
So, what has helped you to be balanced
despite your busy schedule?
I loved the March 2016 broadcast
that stressed three things.
The first is count your blessings.
We are a part of an amazing organization
that is carrying on the most meaningful work
of preaching and teaching.
The second is look at the big picture.
When I feel stressed out,
I try to put things in the right perspective
—Jehovah’s sovereignty first, foremost,
and not focusing on myself—
and that helps me to keep calm.
And third is get enough rest.
Without enough rest,
I can’t think straight
and even ordinary activities in my routine
seem overwhelming, or too much.
That’s very practical.
Now, is there a particular experience
you’d like to share with us?
When I was special pioneering in Iowa,
I married a brother who was a pioneer
and then became an elder,
and so I continued in the congregation
as a regular pioneer.
After several years, he became an apostate,
and he tried to encourage me
to go with him; but I refused.
The elders made great efforts
to help him to recover,
but he was persistent
in carrying out his course.
So in time, he separated from me
and ended the marriage.
But I felt Jehovah’s support in so many ways.
One in particular was a couple
who would call me often,
and they would have me to their home,
and they never wanted me to feel alone.
Then another blessing came later
when I moved to Mississippi,
and I became partners with a sister
who was 20 years older than me.
She had been in the seventh class of Gilead,
and she had been special pioneering
for 30 years.
So you can imagine
she was a tremendous help to me.
More blessings came later
when I married Tom
and began serving at Bethel.
So feeling Jehovah’s support
in a difficult time
and experiencing his blessings
is unforgettable.
Sister Cheiky, thank you so much
for sharing that experience with us.
In the introduction,
we referenced the example of Phoebe,
that faithful Christian sister.
Interestingly, our Kingdom song number 137,
entitled “Faithful Women, Christian Sisters,”
is based on the description of Phoebe
at Romans 16:2.
The lyrics of that song remind us
that our Christian sisters
show a faithful spirit we all can imitate,
and that’s true of the sisters
we interviewed today.
The song concludes with the words:
“Christian sisters, may Jehovah keep you
firm in your conviction,
your prize is drawing near.”
How we appreciate the example set
by all of our faithful Christian sisters!
Thank you, Brother Myers.
We thank you sisters as well.
There are so many faithful wives
around the world who support their husbands
who are putting Kingdom interests first.
We thank you and pray for all of you.
Now we have the pleasure of hearing
from another member of the Governing Body,
Brother Gerrit Lösch.
He will speak on the subject
“We Do Not Give Up.”
Brother Lösch,
we look forward to your discussion.
Some of us have been in the truth
for 40 years,
50 years, 60 years, or more.
During our life, we may have been confronted
with various tests, or challenges.
Still, we did not and “we do not give up”
the truth and our precious relationship
with our heavenly Father.
Also, we do not give up
preaching the Word of God.
Second Corinthians 4:16
is the theme scripture
I’ve selected for this talk.
Please locate that with me
—2 Corinthians 4:16.
It says: “Therefore, we do not give up,
“but even if the man we are outside
is wasting away,
certainly the man we are inside
is being renewed from day to day.”
As it said, “we do not give up,”
and we do not give in
when it comes to temptations.
First Peter 3:6 encourages us
to “not give in to fear.”
Deuteronomy 13:6-8 tells the Israelites
that when a false prophet becomes active,
“you must not give in to him
or listen to him.”
In the Sermon on the Mount,
according to an alternate rendering,
Jesus told his listeners to pray to Jehovah
to “not allow us to give in to temptation.”
On one occasion, Peter encouraged others
—1 Peter 3:6: “Do not give in to fear.”
We do give ear
when somebody gives us good counsel;
we give serious thought
when somebody wants to help us;
we give comfort to those in need.
In the first century, Paul gave comfort
to the congregation in Corinth.
Please find 2 Corinthians 4:1
with me, and we can read it together.
And it says there:
“Therefore,
“since we have this ministry
through the mercy that was shown us,
we do not give up.”
So who were the “we”?
The anointed.
Second Corinthians 3:3
tells the Corinthians
(they are the words of Paul)
that they are like “a letter of Christ
“written by [him and his friends]
as ministers,
inscribed . . . with the spirit
of [our] living God.”
The apostle, then, in verse 5,
humbly acknowledges
that the fact that he and the Corinthians
‘were qualified came from God’
and, in verse 6,
that he “has . . . adequately qualified
[Christians]
to be ministers of a new covenant.”
What did Paul refer to
when he said in verse 1
“since we have this ministry”?
He referred to the ministry
of that “new covenant”
of which he was just talking about.
Please follow the reading
of 2 Corinthians 3:5, 6,
where it says:
“Not that we of ourselves
are adequately qualified
“to consider that anything comes from us,
“but our being adequately qualified
comes from God,
“who has indeed adequately qualified us
“to be ministers of a new covenant,
not of a written code, but of spirit.”
At 2 Corinthians 3:18, he says
“and all of us,
while we . . . reflect like mirrors
the glory of Jehovah.”
Well, who did he refer to
when he wrote “all of us”?
He meant all of the anointed.
In chapter 4, verse 1, he says
“therefore, since we have this ministry
through the mercy that was shown us.”
The expression “therefore”
refers back to the reason and motivation
for the anointed not to give up.
In chapter 3, verse 18,
he refers to the anointed
as being “transformed . . .
from one degree of glory to another,”
culminating in the glory they receive
when entering heaven.
Since the anointed are progressing
“from glory to glory,”
until going to heaven,
they have a strong motivation
not to give up but to endure,
since there is such a precious prize,
or reward, ahead of them.
Understandably, Paul said
in chapter 4, verse 1:
“Therefore, . . . we do not give up.”
Also in 2 Corinthians 4:16, Paul wrote:
“Therefore, we do not give up.”
In the third chapter, Paul contrasts
the old covenant that was “stripped of glory”
with the new covenant that would
(like verses 10 and 11 say)
excel with greater glory
—a glory that would remain.
And 2 Corinthians 3:12 says
“since we have such a hope.”
What hope?
The heavenly hope.
Did you note the similarity
with chapter 4, verse 1?
It said “since we have this ministry.”
What ministry was Paul referring to?
Was he referring to the field ministry
in a general sense?
No.
He referred to the ministry
of the new covenant.
In chapter 4, verse 7,
he then calls
the ministry of the new covenant
a “treasure.”
“Since we have this [treasure],” he said.
It’s not just any treasure.
It was a great incentive
for the anointed in the first century
not to give up in view of this treasure
of the new covenant
that involves progressive glory.
Paul wrote: “Therefore, we do not give up.”
Also, the context of the next verses
shows that Paul was writing
about the heavenly calling
that the new covenant made possible.
What Paul wrote is a strong incentive
for the anointed today
not to give up.
What about the “great crowd”
of “other sheep”?
Paul did not have the great crowd in mind
when he wrote the words
of 2 Corinthians chapters 3 and 4.
In the introduction to his letter,
he referred to “all the holy ones.”
In 2 Corinthians 1:21, 22, he says:
“Who anointed us is God.
He has also put his seal on us.”
However, the great crowd is a recipient
of the radiant blessings
of the ministry of the new covenant.
Some time ago, The Watchtower
made a general application in principle
to the great crowd.
Just like the anointed have
the treasure of the new covenant
and its ministry,
the great crowd also considers
their ministry a treasure.
The great crowd is also determined
not to give up
in view of the beautiful hope
to live forever in Paradise on earth.
And all of us, no matter what hope,
have to endure.
Paul wrote at 2 Corinthians 4:8
that “we are hard-pressed”
—some more than others.
Please find Psalm 90:10.
None of us are exempt from the pressures
that can cause discouragement.
And it says there:
“The span of our life is 70 years,
“or 80 if one is especially strong.
“But they are filled with trouble and sorrow;
they quickly pass by, and away we fly.”
Because of the pressures of life
and disappointments,
most of us grow weary at times.
But we must remember
that God never promised
that we would have a problem-free life
in this old system.
Even in the first century,
God’s servants faced adversities,
including persecution and poverty.
Jehovah does allow his servants
to be tempted and tested.
For the time of the end, he also foretold
“earthquakes,” wars,
increased lawlessness, and “pestilences”
according to Luke 21:11.
In Revelation, he foretold
that a figurative horseman
on the “pale horse”
would kill a large amount of people.
This has happened for decades
but started with the Spanish flu
at the end of World War I,
where an estimated 500 million were affected
—one third of mankind of that time—
and about 50 million died.
Satan exploits our moments of discouragement
just as a lion takes advantage of an animal
when it is most vulnerable.
But we will not give up!
We will not give up if others disappoint us.
In Bible times,
even the most faithful servants of Jehovah
may have felt weighed down at times.
“I have grown weary with my sighing,”
wrote David.
“All night long I make my couch swim;
with my tears I make my own divan overflow.”
Why did David feel that way?
“Because of all those
showing hostility to me,”
he explained.
The hurtful actions of others
caused David such pain of heart
that his tears flowed freely.
Still, David did not draw away from Jehovah
because of what fellow humans had done to him
—and neither do we!
Similarly, the words or actions of others
may cause us much pain of heart.
“There exists the one speaking thoughtlessly
as with the stabs of a sword,”
says Proverbs 12:18.
When the thoughtless one
is a Christian brother or sister,
the stab wound can go deep.
The human tendency may be to take offense,
perhaps harboring resentment.
This is especially true if we feel
that we have been treated unkindly
or unjustly.
We may find it hard to talk to the offender.
We might even deliberately avoid him or her.
Weighed down with resentment,
some have given up
and have stopped coming
to Christian meetings.
How can we avoid
playing into the Devil’s hands
when others disappoint or hurt us?
We must try not to harbor resentment.
It can hurt us so much
that we start suffering from depression.
Instead of giving in
to depression or aggression,
take the initiative to make peace
or settle matters as quickly as possible.
Colossians 3:13 urges us:
“Continue . . . forgiving one another freely
. . . if anyone has a cause for complaint
against another.”
We do not have to fall prey to Satan.
Jehovah and Jesus are on our  side.
How can we find encouragement to endure?
Jehovah deeply cares about those
who may be discouraged.
Acts 17:27 shows
that “he is not far off from each one of us.”
Jehovah comforts and strengthens us
through loving brothers
and through his spirit and his Word.
Reading the Bible daily
and meditating upon it helps.
The publications have encouraged us
to read the Bible through once a year.
Why not make it your resolve
to try such a program?
Nasho Dori, an anointed brother from Albania
who persevered under ban, said:
‘My goal was to read the Bible
‘for at least one hour each day,
‘which I did for some 60 years
before my eyesight failed.’
Was he bragging when saying this?
No.
It helped him not to give up
under the extreme Communist dictatorship.
We do not necessarily expect you
to read the Bible for one hour each day,
but we encourage you to read it through
in one year
and to read it slowly enough
that you can meditate on it.
About 20 minutes a day
provides ample opportunity
to read and meditate on what you read.
If you read so you hear your own voice,
it will help you to read slower
and to meditate.
We also find encouragement
through his organization
—things we read
in the literature or magazines.
And we greatly benefit
from the congregation meetings.
We also benefit from sweet association
with our brothers
—be it live or via television.
So do not give up!
Elders, when they shepherd,
are also a big help for many to persevere.
Publishers in our congregation
do a lot to strengthen us.
According to Hebrews 10:25, it is God’s will
that we keep “encouraging one another,”
and doing so is more urgent now
than ever before.
Let us always keep in mind the inspired words
of 2 Thessalonians 3:13:
“For your part, brothers,
do not give up in doing good.”
Galatians 6:9 similarly says:
“Let us not give up in doing what is fine,
for in due time we will reap.”
What do we conclude from this?
It is in the words of our theme text,
2 Corinthians 4:16:
“We do not give up”!
Thank you, Brother Lösch.
May we all be determined to follow
that Scriptural advice and not give up,
no matter what we face ahead
during these last days.
And we’d like to remind all of you
that the concluding segment
of the annual meeting
will be posted on February 1, 2021,
right here on JW Broadcasting®.